Hey Dax, do you see the Chris Moon's tweet serverless is dead. Yeah, I saw that tweet
I saw the whole thread. I spent a lot of time thinking about it. I felt hurt. I felt confused
I felt angry. I felt sleepy like I thought about it a lot
So yeah, I really got in my head and the whole weekend I was like it's serverless dead
Yeah, I've kind of felt like everything I thought was true is now false. It just shattered
my entire worldview in technology and it took first in context. Chris is one a great guy.
So Chris, if we say anything that sounds like we think you're wrong on this podcast because
we might say something that we I don't know we'll see you're a great guy. We love you Chris.
But Chris is like involved with startups at AWS right he like he does a lot he works
with a lot of startups from the AWS side. So he sees what people actually use in startup
land and like his whole thing is basically like startups don't really use serverless
or at least not pure serverless maybe we should define pure serverless because that is an important
note in this whole conversation. Yeah, you're right. He did say pure serverless. So the idea
behind pure serverless is you're using managed services everywhere. You don't have something
that's running all the time, like, you know, a database that's running all the time that
you're being charged for or a VPC that has like a managed managed night and that's running
all the time. So you're only paying for when your system is doing something. And you know,
it's obviously a spectrum but we're the idea is you push more and more towards not having
stuff running that is being built. Yeah, I just the moment I have to create a VPC or
I guess use the default VPC. I'm just pretty upset. So pure serverless is sort of like
I thought just the default a way of operating when you're building any new products, especially
for startups, I know that that's not the case. Like I know having worked with a lot of startups,
they're mostly still building Rails apps. Like I get that. But I thought like if you
were in serverless, you were pretty well defaulting to pure serverless. That was just like assumed
in my mind. So do you think there's a lot of like this hybrid stuff out there? Is that
what he's kind of implying? Yeah, I think I they're deaf. We see the same thing. We see
container workloads. We see RDS clusters in a VPC with just, you know, everything else
is serverless. The database isn't. It's definitely common and maybe even the norm because it's
hard to go pure serverless. At least today you have to jump through a lot of hoops. And
we tried it like we spent a lot of time thinking about that and trying to make that easier.
But I think the day is probably the day is referring to is correct. I think today it probably
is pretty hybrid. So is there a future for pure serverless? Is he is he right? Is it
dead? And it's not coming back because he implies that it's just not ever going to
be a thing. Yeah, I think the reason I was so disappointed is I agree with him on the
current state of things, but I thought everyone was aligned with where we were going. And
the, you know, the ideal state being, okay, today it's like a mix of stuff, but eventually
it's going to be pure serverless. And this was actually a vision that AWS sold me, you
know, I was not doing things the way at all. AWS came in and started talking about the
advantages of serverless, like a serverless mindset and making things more and more serverless.
So I thought we were all kind of going the same direction of, Hey, like this is just going
to get better and better and things are going to be more like this. So it was a little weird
for me to hear like that dream is dead. We're kind of settling on, okay, it's going to be
a mix of mix of a few things because that's not where I want to be. And it's not like right
now where I was hoping we'd go. Yeah. And Chris also, I mean, he's, he's like very involved
with startups that did this now, but before that he was like the big face of serverless
at AWS, right? What was his title then he was like a developer, something relations. Like
if that's all he did, right? It was serverless. Yeah. So I'm like, I'm really curious what
happened or the vibe I got from that thread was it seemed like he had been patient for
a long time and the patient kind of gave out. And now it's, you know, a little bit of frustration.
So I'm kind of able like wondering what he was hit over and over with. Yeah, I think
at some of the things he said, he was, I think just to kind of summarize what the thread
was. Alex debris pointed out that to use Zenmo DB decks. Yes, haha decks. You need a VPC
and that's a problem. And then Chris responded saying, can we stop bringing up this VPC issue?
You're going to end up with a VPC realistically. So give up on not ever having one. And he and
his argument was well, the data shows that most people have VPCs. And I'm not questioning
the data, but I think whenever you're trying to make a new paradigm or something better,
the data is going to show the opposite because that's the status quo as everyone's doing.
Yeah, most of those companies are probably not fun to work at. So yes, that's what the
data shows. But to me, what the data is actually showing is serverless is still too hard, which
is why people are still using these VPCs. So it's kind of like, AWS has all this great
stuff. It's not great. It's not like super easy to use or discoverable. People don't
really know about it. So they're not using it. And then it's kind of like, well, it's
a point of improving if no one's using it. So if it's a little circular, I think reason
to keep pushing on getting people to use it and eventually, you know, we'll get we'll
get there. Yeah, and I think that's the biggest bummer is the feeling that if it's coming
from AWS, that like that impacts product decisions, road map, I mean, they're so driven off of
what customers are asking for and what customers are needing and using. So to think that that
trend, I remember it was Chris, even I remember an interaction on Twitter, like a year ago,
I think it was leading up to reinvent last year, where some sort of similar thread was
going on and I sort of asked Chris on Twitter, I'm had to find it. Like, is it feels like
serverless is slow moving? Like we're just having a hard time making progress as a community,
like it's just not that it's not moving in the direction of the speed, I would think.
Like, is there any chance that AWS doesn't prioritize it? It was something exactly along
these lines. And he said that AWS was like the biggest customer, like internally, they
use so many serverless offerings for things that they build. So that it was like, just
on that front alone, a huge priority. And to your point, like we've had at every reinvent,
machine bristles is up there, like talking about Legos transformation. And you just kind
of felt like that was, you know, the future in that every, every reinvent would be seeing
more and more progress towards a more serverless future. So it's all very depressing. If now
AWS is like internally, people who are big champions of serverless are frustrated that
the adoption is just not there and they're sort of giving up and saying it's going to
be this weird mishmash of using services that aren't because I just hope like we're just
a few things away, like search. And like, they're going to hit a couple more of these
buckets and we're going to have everything we need to build anything you can imagine
with serverless first stuff. But yeah, maybe it's the tides are turning. I don't like it.
I don't like it.
Yeah. And to be fair, it has been a while, you know, serverless has been around the corner
for seven years, maybe. I don't know what the exact timeline is, but I know Jay and Frank
have been doing it for a very long time. And they've always been hearing, oh, this is like
just a matter of time before this is the thing. So I can see why, you know, as time has gone,
the energy behind it has slowed down simultaneously. I think there's a few interesting things that
are happening. No, within AWS, if does feel like they've slowed down launching, like really
good serverless offerings. Yeah. I think RDS is a big one serverless V1 came out serverless
V2 came out. Both of those are not really serverless. They're kind of scaling serverless.
So yeah, it feels like AWS is kind of polluting that word a little bit. And some of this new
Neptune thing also is not really serverless. Redshift serverless is like kind of serverless,
not really. Yeah. Oh, that big batch that they launched
at last re-invent. There were like four of those analytics offerings that got serverless
options and they all were kind of like a mixed bag of, is that serverless? Like, how many
inches is it? Definitely. They're diluting it. So from the AWS side, it feels like forever
reason. It's not. There's no like new lambda type thing coming out where it definitely
100% is serverless. But then if you look at the market outside of AWS, there are so many
companies coming out with truly serverless offerings. I think I would trace this all the
way back to snowflake. Snowflake recognized, yes, Redshift exists, but it's hard to deploy
because it's a managed, you know, let's make your managing nodes. So they made a serverless
data warehouse. And that was a long time ago. And now they're like a $100 billion company.
And since then, they've just been, you know, planet scale serverless, MySQL, upstash, serverless
Redis, serverless Kafka, serverless messaging, like just a ton of companies that are really,
they kind of picked up the torch and they're running with it now. Yeah. So it feels odd
that AWS is slowing down on the interest from, you know, new companies is higher than ever.
So maybe the, yeah, maybe the third party ecosystem is enough. And maybe, maybe this
is just part of like AWS isn't great at building the vertical like developer experiences is
serverless just sort of a flavor of that. Like, is this really going to take the community
building on top of the more traditional primitives that AWS builds and launching startups that
survive like the ones that survive will give us all that we need. Because they have planet
scale is looking really good these days. And I think from a serverless perspective, I'd
choose it any day over Aurora serverless V one or V two. If you need Postgres, I guess
then there's neon and I don't know, like there's some company sprouting up for all
these things, different degrees of serverless, I guess. But, but that is all that serverless
is I guess is just sort of like managed services. It doesn't have to be all in your AWS account.
Yeah, and I think at this point, any new dev tool type company that launches, if they don't
have serverless pricing, it's almost to me, I feels like dead, unarrival. So I think the
expectations are there.
I, I'm building, I'm building something with serverless. And I want to test like, this
is a dumb idea. I had just kind of over the weekend. But like thinking about the limits
of what you can build with serverless in terms of like a lot of people want to, on the container
side, oh, that's another topic I want to hit. We'll do that after we take a break. Like
on the containerization side, people like want to throw rocks at serverless and say,
like, cold starts and does it really scale? Like, that's kind of the shtick of serverless
is that it's on demand. It's like all elastic, you're never like provisioning anything. It's
auto scaling. But we all know that there are actual limits in your AWS accounts for how
many like concurrent lambda functions can be executing that sort of thing. So I'm trying
to build like, what is the biggest scale thing? I'm using like a Twitter clone, like with
serverless only things, how, how many tweets per second, how many transactions per second,
can we push with serverless? I'm doing it this week. So it's kind of in line with what
we're doing or what we're talking about here. Like what, what is serverless good for? What
is it not? My thought was that it was good for everything and that it's just the future.
We're still building the developer experience. That part's not there. But like, from a run
time perspective, from like your app actually living in the cloud felt like there are no
limits to, you know, what you can build with serverless. I don't know. Do you have thoughts
on any of that? No, I was going to ask what kind of constraints are you putting on? Is
it all just going to be in a single AWS account? It's all going to be in a single AWS account.
It'll be in separate regions, which I think is fine because Twitter is global. So like,
if I'm trying to mimic a Twitter API, having it spread across six regions, it sort of like
represents a global API that Twitter is, but that gets around some of the limits like the
per region concurrency limits and stuff. Oh, are the Lambda function limits per region?
I don't think the Lambda function ones are, but I know like the app sync. So I'm using
app sync and like app sync operations, so mutations and queries, those are per region. So I'm going
to the process trying to like increase all the limits and get all the quotas up for this
experiment. But yeah, I don't know. I think you can build anything with serverless. And
I think like Simon Wardley, we mentioned on a past podcast, like that the people who can't
build with serverless should be the edge case. And I hope that's still true. I hope we're
not going to be super disappointed to reinvent because AWS doesn't care anymore.
Yeah, I mean, it's a cool idea of what you're doing because I think we all talk about those
benefits, but very few of us actually me myself, like this is a space I operate in. I've never
actually pushed AWS to its limits to see what you actually run into. Because like you said,
it probably won't be that DynamoDB fails. It'll probably be this like weird bottleneck
has like some rate limit that you're going to hit. So that'll be interesting to find
out what actually stops you. Yeah, I'm assuming you are using Dynamo for this.
I am. Yeah, I wasn't going to try this with a SQL based database. I just don't think it
makes sense from like a hundred thousand tweets per second perspective. But if you think about
even just 10,000 tweets per second, Dynamo has like an 80,000 with on demand pricing and 80,000
WCU's was that same for right capacity units. So per second, 80,000, that's a like a soft
limit, it can be raised. But like one tweet being added to a database ultimately has like
a lot of downstream things also being written to the database. So you have to write those
to everyone timelines and all that. I mean, I think that's the best architecture. So I
don't know, it's going to be really interesting to see like what falls over fastest, what,
what can't scale because some of these sources has hard limits. Like you can't do more than
5,000 secret value reads per second in secrets manager. So can I even use secrets manager?
Those types of questions, it's going to be fun to see. Yeah, so you're actually going
to do the feed part too. So not just tweeting, you're actually going to be like the whole
premise is going to be can it sustain 10,000, 100,000 tweets per second with people still
fetching their, their timeline in a performant way. Like basically mimic as much of the core
Twitter functionality as possible. I'm not thinking about DMs or anything like that,
but I don't know, just this whole like, Elon bought Twitter and everyone's upset. And
then you just, there's the fever pitch around Twitter clones is even higher than ever. I
just started thinking about like, could you build it? Could a single engineer build a Twitter
clone on serverless tech and AWS? What would it cost to run it? Like just kind of
getting into the cost and pricing conversation with serverless. Yeah, I don't know. My mind
is going in a million miles an hour right now. Yeah. I mean, this is also funny because
I think it was Tomasa tweeted this, he was like, there's so many people on hacker news
that could build Twitter in a weekend, but we don't have any, but we don't actually have
any alternatives. Yeah. So you're the guy that's actually going to try to build it in
a weekend. And so just just talking about it. Yeah, no, I'm going to actually try and
build it because I'm going to try and make a YouTube video this week of it. I mean, just
the process and what I learned. But it's really more like testing, I think the serverless
limits, like what, what can you do with serverless? Because obviously if you start running containers
and things like that, it gets easier to manage more expensive probably. But yeah, yeah, it
is good to test this. I think just because I didn't constantly just thinking about the
people that are cynical to serverless, I know what reaction you're already going to get.
Yeah. So even if it all works, people are going to say, well, like no one has that scale.
So who cares about that? Yeah. So I feel like one of the things again, this that gets missed
about serverless is, yeah, of course, top end, well, we'll see maybe not of course, but seemingly
top and all fail. Yeah, high scale, it'll do it. But that's not really the point because
yeah, like none of us in practice have really, really hit that. So it's fair to say that's
not that important. It's more that usually when you're building something, every month
or so you usually run into some kind of minor scaling limit. It might just take you look
at data solving take two days of solve, but it's pretty disruptive. And that's sub your
roadmap mess up your day mess up your momentum. And for me, serverless is more about the fact
that you're not going to run into those bumps, even if you're not ever going to hit like
some crazy top end scale, even at small scale as you run those bumps, the typical architecture.
So yeah, that's why I've never really cared about the top end. I've never had to had to
do that. But yeah, I am so curious to see if it actually works. Maybe AWS banks on nobody
actually. Yeah, yeah, it's kind of like testing some of these quotas that are published, like
I'm just curious what what starts falling over. But I know like, I know the services
that will be involved. So it is just a handful of services that you have to think about and
what quotas will be hit. I don't know. This is a good time. Let's take a break. I want
to read some chat. Jay station. Hey, Jay, having looked at hundreds or perhaps thousands
of job posting over the last few months, I can say that pure serverless does not show
up at all. However, however, feel like it's still just emerging. Engineering leadership
is old. People calling shots aren't there yet. Could be a decade or more. Oof. I have
to the check it decade, decade, ouch. Focus for anything. What's that? Oh, yeah. To like
keep pushing the boulder for a decade. Yeah. The irony there is with every new emergent
technology typically startups adopted first. But yeah, it's weird that like Lego and these
like huge companies are the faces of serverless versus, you know, like some unicorn that was
founded two years ago. That is something that's interesting to me is is serverless more adopted
from an enterprise standpoint than it is in the serverless space, Chris is in the serverless
space or I'm sorry, in the startup space. Is this just like, it's going to take enterprise
pushing this boulder forward? Are they going to see the benefits? It seems unlikely. But
I'm wondering if that's kind of what's messing it up because I think you're right. There
has been a lot of adoption enterprise. That's been the face. At least when AWS showcases
stuff, I typically see these big companies showcase their how they're using serverless.
So you know, AWS being very customer centric, as they say, they are probably very focused
on these companies. And of course, these enterprise companies are not pure serverless. They can't
be they have right potentially decades of systems that they're still dealing with. So their
product energy might be going to supporting the needs of enterprise. And it makes sense
just from like, pay attention to dollars thing. Yeah. So I'm kind of wondering, do they just
suck all the do big enterprise to suck all like the product development energy and startups
are less interesting for AWS because it's way more of an investment, way more of a long
term. And like, like Jay just said, like a, like a 10 year thing.
Yeah, that's an interesting thought that like, what is the breakdown at AWS in terms of people
focused on enterprise versus startups? Like the, I mean, obviously the majority of their
business is enterprise. And we've heard it before, even last year, but I remember some
of the commentary after re-invent last year was about how it's very clear AWS just cares
about enterprise. And the smaller use cases aren't as interesting to them. I just, it's
weird to me because I think of AWS as being this best place to build your startup. Is
that just me looking through AWS glasses? Like I just, everything is a nail, because I know
there's a hammer. I feel like every company I know eventually ends up there. Maybe that
becomes less true over time, but I still think it is true today. So you might, at least today,
you might as well start there. But like I said, with a lot of these services being unbundled
and these other options that are serverless and better than AWS offering, I think it's
more and more likely and more and more possible to glue together a bunch of non AWS services
and get a better outcome than with an AWS. Yeah, so I don't know, I think that feels
in the direction it's going, I don't love it. But I think the worst part about all this is,
at least for me, it's, it always wins no matter what, right? So I'm talking about all the ways
that they're disappointing my expectations for them. But it doesn't matter because the
companies that are serving my needs are paying AWS. So it's like, yeah, I get why they're focused
on enterprise because those are the deals that only they can win. And then the other deals,
other people will win, but AWS will get their, will get their cut.
Yeah. And it just makes our situation building things more fractured and disparate, like we're
having to use more and more pieces, like it makes it feel less likely that we're going to get a
really good serverless search offering from AWS. We're going to have to use the thing that the
community builds that wins out, which is there, I guess, is it Algolia? What is the like, winning
search? I mean, last I checked the two options are Algolia and I'm blanking on the other one.
I don't know if you remember, type sense, which is open source. They have a hosted version. Okay.
Algolia is extremely expensive. Type sense is not serverless. So I don't feel like there's
a clear winner there yet. But yeah, I've heard nothing from AWS about a search thing and
people constantly bring it up. I know. So they're just happy with the last search or whatever it's
called now, cloud. What is it? Cloud search? Open search. Open search. But it's in the VPCs,
it's not very open. No, right. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. It's a bummer. I just,
I feel like the more you can leverage managed stuff, the more leverage an individual developer
gets. And I guess that's still true if I'm using planet scale versus something built into AWS.
But it does just add more and more complexity and risk, I guess. I always feel bad building on
any startup that's like a series a startup, you build on their thing and you know, the success rate
of it lasting the next decade is like, whatever it is, 50% less. I don't know.
Yeah. I mean, I've been to that cycle enough times where I've been really excited about
something and I've gotten a company to use it and it just died. So at this point, yeah, I agree.
Like there's a level of responsibility you have when making these decisions.
Okay, so serverless is dead. Feels that way. But maybe that the hope is in like these new
companies, they're all doing pretty well. I feel like like planet scale is less than two years old.
They're shipping what they've raised, but they seem to be doing. They're good at things. Yeah.
Upstash is also upstash seems tiny, but they're shipping so much as well. They have four services now.
So yeah, that might just be the future. And I think that lines up a little bit. I think we've
talked about this before where a lot of people build their app on next year. It has deploy to
Vercel, full stack, everything that eventually they hit a pain point, whether it's something
asynchronous, whether it's a background job, whatever it is. And at that point, I think we try to get
them to come to AWS, but that is like a big step, especially when there's always perceptions around
it, whether they're true or not. It might be a much more incremental step for them to use. Oh,
here's like this dedicated jobs API that can let you run background jobs. So that might help people
step by step, make their application more complex than going all like admitting, okay,
we should have been on here with us and going all in. Yeah, it just it does feel painful, though,
when I didn't realize planet scale is only two years old, like that's that kind of blows my mind.
They're just they're shipping some really cool stuff. And like they everything they do from a
marketing perspective is very polished. They seem older than they are. Yeah, I think just a lot of
experienced people at the company that have done this before, and a plus are building on top of
a technology that's much older than two years, right, a decade plus. So I think for them, it's
their experts in that technology and their task is more exposing that to the rest of us who aren't.
So I see why they're shipping fast, but it's so impressive. All around. Interesting. Okay. Well,
I think that's everything I have to say about Chris Moon's kicking this off with that tweet.
Yeah. Do you have anything else? No. Cool. See you, Dax. See you.